Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.


What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.A programming language is a vocabulary and set of grammatical rules
for instructing a computer or computing device to perform specific tasks.



What is IDE?
A.Integrated development environment



What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Eclipse, NetBeans, InteliJ IDEA, BlueJ, JCreator, jGRASP



Explain the entire java life cycle.

what is class?
A class is a user defined blueprint  which objects are created.


What is object?
OBJECT is an instance of a class

What is the entry point of an application?
the main method.

Why main is static?
Java program's main method has to be declared
static because keyword static allows main to be called without
creating an object of the class in which the main method is defined.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Normally the object class is the super class.


What is difference between path and classpath variables?
1.path locate jdk binarie code to run & classpath used by system to find and compile java bytecode
2.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
 Interface can have only abstract methods. Abstract class can have abstract and non-abstract methods.
 Variables declared in a Java interface are by default final. An abstract class may contain non-final variables.


Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
we can't create an object of an abstract class
by extending or implementing we can create

what is Access Specifier?
specifies the accessibilituy of fields, method, constructor, class

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Object Oriented Programming
Polymorphism---overloading and overriding methods
Inheritance -- is a mechanism whch one class allow to inherit fields and methods of another class
Encapsulation -- binds together the codes and the data it manipulate, protected
Abstraction -- is the process of hiding certain details and showing only essential information to the user.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
package is a folder where keeps class or other elements organize way, the src package is default

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
application programming interface,

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
no,  when methods with same signature in both the super classes and subclass.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
Method Overloading is a feature that allows a class to have more than one method having the same name


Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
when any error shows at run time, by useing if, catch block we hande exceptions

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
static is used for a constant variable or a method that is same for every instance of a class.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
final keyword used when variable need to keep same value always.

What is final, finally and finalize?
final calss cant be instantiated, overriden, cant be reassigned variable
finally used to execute try catch block, whether or not an exeption occur
finalize used just before object is destroyed

What is a constructor ?
A constructor is a special method that is used to initialize objects.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
yes

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
default constructor

What is "this" keyword in java ?
this used when same name variable exists and this used to decide in its own method

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
used to call superclass methods, eliminate confusion between superclasses and subclasses

What is JVM stand for ?
java virtual machine

Is JVM platform independent?
yes

What version of java are you using?
jdk 8

What is JAR stand for ?
Java Archive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
jdk is java development kit helps programm run
jvm execute bytecode

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
jvm execute bytecode jre consists of jvm.

What is compile time and run time?
Compile-time is the time at which the source code is converted into an
executable code while the run time is the time at which the executable code is started running

What is heap?
is a memory location where memory alocated to random access

How java manage it's memory?
java uses heap memory, when become full colelcts garbage.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
string is lang in java
stringbuffer synchronized
stringbuilder nonsynchronized

What is Singleton class?
define a class that has only one instance and provides a global point of access to it

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream.
Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the
actual Java object in memory

when to use transient variable in java?
At the time of serialization, if we don't want to save value of a particular variable in a file, then we use transient keyword.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
In while loop condition first and do while task first then condition

What is Enum?
Enum is a special class, that represents a group of constants(unchangable variables, like final)
and separate constants with comma.

What is Iterator?
In Java, Iterator is an interface available in Collection framework in java. util package.
It is a Java Cursor used to iterate a collection of objects

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Integer is an object takes 128bits, and int is an data type takes 32 bits

Why is String Immutable in Java?
the reason of String Immutable are caching, security, synchronization and performance.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from
another constructor with respect its current object. works two ways,
within same class using this() keyword
From base class using super() keyword


The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Serial garbage collector is simplest imlementation. whenever
we call garbage collector to clean unused memory then serial
garbage collector holds all the running threads of application.

What is JIT stands for?
just in time

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?

java objects resides in the heap memory, when jvm starts
up and may increase or decrease in size while the application runs. when
the heap become full, garbage is collected. duning collection the objects are
no longer needed are cleared and this make new space for new objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
No, it can not gurantee that program will not run out of memory.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
all the parts of programm uses heap memory, but the stack memory is used only by one thread of execution
an object creation stored in heap memory, and stack memory contains the reference to it.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
(dont understand it)

what is multithreading in java?
Multithreading is a Java feature that allows concurrent execution of two or more parts of a program for
maximum utilization of CPU. Each part of such program is called a thread.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
Synchronization in java is the capability to control the access of multiple threads to any shared resource.

What is Framework?
framework is prwritten codes or structure or body, that allows developer write code in it.
so developer doesnt have to write every single code from the sratch.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
testNg, JUnit, JWalk, Mockito

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
similar works, accept group test, parameterized, dependency test for JUnit

What are the dependencies for this project?
when a class uses another class or interface, the first class in depemndent on next class or interface

what is dependency injection in java?
is a technique when class A creates an instance of class B, this is called dependency injection

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
static binding happens at compile time while Dynamic binding happens at runtime









